Senator Holling’s Carolina Biscuits

Makes 20 (1-inch) biscuits

According to Nathalie, U.S. Senator “Fritz” Hollings, one of the truly great raconteurs
of the twentieth century, posted this recipe on his website. Also called Carolina Biscuits
by some, they are the kind of Southern hors d’oeuvre greedily eaten as opposed to nibbling
while standing around drinking and telling stories. Without a doubt the flakiest
and richest of all the biscuits we’ve made, these tiny bites melt in the mouth,
need no embellishment, and can be served unadorned, warm out of the oven or at room temperature.
As someone said, “I can’t believe how good these are.”

There is no sense doing this by hand when a food processor is available, making it easy and stress-free.

- 8 ounces cream cheese, softened
- 2⁄3 cup butter, softened
- 1 cup self-rising flour, divided
- Softened butter, for brushing

Pulse together the cream cheese, 2⁄3 cup of butter, and 1 cup of the flour two or
three times in a food processor fitted with the knife or dough blade. Turn the dough out onto
waxed paper and divide into two rounds. Wrap in waxed paper, plastic wrap, or a resealable
plastic bag, and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.

When ready to bake, preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Lightly sprinkle a board or other clean surface
using some of the reserved flour. Sprinkle the top lightly with flour. With floured hands and a
floured rolling pin, roll out one portion of the dough at a time to approximately 1⁄2 inch thick.
For each biscuit, dip a 1- to 1 1⁄4-inch biscuit cutter into the reserved flour and cut out the
biscuits, starting at the outside edge and cutting very close together, being careful not to twist
the cutter. The scraps may be combined to make additional biscuits, although these scraps make tougher biscuits.

Using a metal spatula if necessary, move the biscuits to an ungreased baking sheet, placing
the biscuits 1 inch apart. Bake the biscuits on the top rack of the oven for a total of 10 to
12 minutes until light golden brown. After 6 minutes, rotate the pan in the oven so that the front
of the pan is now turned to the back, and check to see if the bottoms are browning too quickly.
If so, slide another baking pan underneath to add insulation and retard browning.

Continue baking another 4 to 6 minutes until the biscuits are light golden brown. When the biscuits are done,
lightly brush the tops with melted butter. Turn the biscuits out upside down on a plate to cool slightly.
Serve hot, right side up. These biscuits may be frozen, unbaked or baked, and reheated.
